.TH LURE 1 "June 2026" "LURE" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
lure \- Linux User REpository

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lure
COMMAND [OPTIONS] [ARGS...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
LURE is a package management utility that installs and manages packages
from LURE repositories and integrates with the system package manager.

Many commands support partial package names, matching against package
provides entries, and the '%' wildcard.

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
.B install, in
Install a package from LURE repositories.

If a package is not found in LURE repositories, the request is forwarded
to the system package manager.

By default, cached builds are used when available.

Options:

.RS
.TP
.BR -c ", " --clean
Force rebuilding the package instead of using a cached build.
.RE

Examples:

.nf
lure in itd-bin
lure in itd
lure in it%
lure in -c itd-bin
.fi

.TP
.B remove, rm
Remove a package.

This command simply forwards the removal request to the system package
manager.

Example:

.nf
lure rm firefox
.fi

.TP
.B upgrade, up
Upgrade installed packages that correspond to packages available in
LURE repositories.

Package versions are compared using the rpmvercmp algorithm.

Options:

.RS
.TP
.BR -c ", " --clean
Force rebuilding packages instead of using cached builds.
.RE

Example:

.nf
lure up
.fi

.TP
.B info
Display information about a package in LURE repositories.

Supports partial matches, provides matching, and '%' wildcards.

Examples:

.nf
lure info itd-bin
lure info itd
lure info it%
.fi

.TP
.B list, ls
List available packages in LURE repositories and their versions.

Supports optional filtering patterns.

Options:

.RS
.TP
.BR -I ", " --installed
Show only packages currently installed on the system.
.RE

Examples:

.nf
lure ls
lure ls -I
lure ls i%
lure ls %d
lure ls -I i%
.fi

.TP
.B build
Build a package using a lure.sh build script.

Options:

.RS
.TP
.BR -s " PATH"
Specify an alternate build script path.
.RE

Example:

.nf
lure build
.fi

.TP
.B addrepo, ar
Add a repository.

Required options:

.RS
.TP
.BR -n " NAME"
Repository name.
.TP
.BR -u " URL"
Repository URL.
.RE

Example:

.nf
lure ar -n default -u https://github.com/Elara6331/lure-repo
.fi

.TP
.B removerepo, rr
Remove a repository and its contents.

Required options:

.RS
.TP
.BR -n " NAME"
Repository name.
.RE

Example:

.nf
lure rr -n default
.fi

.TP
.B refresh, ref
Pull updates from all configured repositories that have changed.

Example:

.nf
lure ref
.fi

.TP
.B fix
Attempt to repair LURE by deleting and rebuilding its cache.

Example:

.nf
lure fix
.fi

.TP
.B version
Display the current LURE version and exit.

Example:

.nf
lure version
.fi

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.TP
.B LURE_DISTRO
Target distribution used when building packages.

Values should match the ID field from
.I /etc/os-release
or
.I /usr/lib/os-release.

Common values:

.nf
arch
alpine
opensuse
debian
.fi

.TP
.B LURE_PKG_FORMAT
Package format to generate.

Supported values:

.nf
archlinux
apk
rpm
deb
.fi

.TP
.B LURE_ARM_VARIANT
ARM architecture variant to target when building on ARM systems.

Supported values:

.nf
arm5
arm6
arm7
.fi

.SH CROSS-PACKAGING

Packages may be built for other distributions by setting
.B LURE_DISTRO
and
.B LURE_PKG_FORMAT
appropriately.

Examples:

.nf
LURE_DISTRO=arch     LURE_PKG_FORMAT=archlinux lure build
LURE_DISTRO=alpine   LURE_PKG_FORMAT=apk       lure build
LURE_DISTRO=opensuse LURE_PKG_FORMAT=rpm       lure build
LURE_DISTRO=debian   LURE_PKG_FORMAT=deb       lure build
.fi

.SH FILES

.TP
.I /etc/os-release
Distribution identification source.

.TP
.I /usr/lib/os-release
Alternative distribution identification source.

.SH SEE ALSO

rpmvercmp(7)

.SH AUTHORS

Elara elara[at]elara[dot]ws

Sayantan Santra sayantan[dot]santra689[at]gmail[dot]com

